revise: Trust in canisters page (#3978)
dfinity/portal: docs/developer-docs/smart-contracts/overview/trust-in-canisters.mdx

Canister controllers, if not voluntarily decentralized, have complete control over the user assets held by the canister, such as any ICP tokens or bitcoin held by the canister on the user's behalf. The controller, if malicious, can steal these assets. In other words, as a user, if you interact with a canister that deals with your assets, inspect the canister to know how it handles them. If you determine that the canister is storing assets in its subaccounts, ensure that the canister controller is decentralized.
:::

## Verifying a canister's controllers

A user can verify the list of controllers for a canister using [`dfx canister info`](/docs/current/developer-docs/developer-tools/cli-tools/cli-reference/dfx-canister#dfx-canister-info):

```
dfx canister info <canister-id> --network ic
```

A user can also obtain the list of a canister's controllers via a [`read_state` request](/references/ic-interface-spec.md/#http-read-state) to get the relevant [canister information](/references/ic-interface-spec.md#state-tree-canister-information), which includes the list of controllers. A canister cannot obtain this information.

> If a canister does not have any controllers, it can only be uninstalled by the NNS via NNS proposal, assuming the integrity of the platform is maintained.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a canister does not have any controllers, it cannot be changed and is thus immutable. It can only be uninstalled by the NNS via NNS proposal, assuming the integrity of the platform is maintained.
```

## Black hole canisters

> A similar effect can also be achieved by setting the controller of a canister to be itself. In this case, however, you need to carefully verify that the canister cannot somehow submit a request to upgrade itself, e.g., by issuing a reinstall request. Here, code inspection and reproducible builds are crucial.

Reviewer: This could also be moved to before the title (i.e. the old section).

Finally, a somewhat more useful solution is to pass control of the canister to a so-called [“black hole” canister](https://github.com/ninegua/ic-blackhole). This canister has only itself as a controller but allows third parties to obtain useful information about the canisters the black hole controls, such as the available cycles balance of a black-holed canister. An instance of a black hole canister is [e3mmv-5qaaa-aaaah-aadma-cai](https://icscan.io/canister/e3mmv-5qaaa-aaaah-aadma-cai) which is [thoroughly documented](https://github.com/ninegua/ic-blackhole). Note that the repository linked here mentions canister immutability, but this is a red herring. 

## Control by distributed governance

> A more complex but powerful approach is to set the controller of the canister as a distributed governance mechanism. The advantage of using another form of governance, such as an [SNS](/docs/current/developer-docs/daos/sns/overview), is that the governance of the canister can be tailored specifically to the canister or project that the canister is a part of. One can imagine different levels of complexity and control that such a governance mechanism may implement. Using an SNS, the trust requirements are moved to the SNS controlling the canister, where all of the considerations regarding code inspection and reproducibility apply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A more complex but powerful approach is to give control over the canister to a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO). It is possible to hand the control over to an [SNS DAO that is built into the platform](/docs/current/developer-docs/daos/sns/overview) or to build a custom governance. The advantage of the latter is that the governance of the canister can be tailored specifically to the canister or project that the canister is a part of. One can imagine different levels of complexity and control that such a governance mechanism may implement. In both cases, the trust requirements are moved to the DAO controlling the canister, where all of the considerations regarding code inspection and reproducibility apply.
```
